<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	
	<title>4. Digital Computers • Computing Machinery and Intelligence</title>
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="section-4" epub:type="chapter">
<h1 id="digital-computers"><span class="section-number">4.</span> Digital Computers</h1>
<p>
	The idea behind digital computers may be explained by saying that these machines are intended to carry out any operations which could be done by a human computer.
	The human computer is supposed to be following fixed rules; he has no authority to deviate from them in any detail.
	We may suppose that these rules are supplied in a book, which is altered whenever he is put on to a new job.
	He has also an unlimited supply of paper on which he does his calculations.
	He may also do his multiplications and additions on a ‘desk machine’, but this is not important.
</p>
<p>
	If we use the above explanation as a definition we shall be in<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page-437" title="437"></span> danger of circularity of argument.
	We avoid this by giving an outline of the means by which the desired effect is achieved.
	A digital computer can usually be regarded as consisting of three parts:
</p>
<ol class="list-lower-roman">
	<li>Store.</li>
	<li>Executive unit.</li>
	<li>Control.</li>
</ol>
<p class="no-indent">
	The store is a store of information, and corresponds to the human computer’s paper, whether this is the paper on which he does his calculations or that on which his book of rules is printed.
	In so far as the human computer does calculations in his bead a part of the store will correspond to his memory.
</p>
<p>
	The executive unit is the part which carries out the various individual operations involved in a calculation.
	What these individual operations are will vary from machine to machine.
	Usually fairly lengthy operations can be done such as “Multiply 3540675445 by 7076345687” but in some machines only very simple ones such as “Write down 0” are possible.
</p>
<p>
	We have mentioned that the ‘book of rules’ supplied to the computer is replaced in the machine by a part of the store.
	It is then called the ‘table of instructions’.
	It is the duty of the control to see that these instructions are obeyed correctly and in the right order.
	The control is so constructed that this necessarily happens.
</p>
<p>
	The information in the store is usually broken up into packets of moderately small size.
	In one machine, for instance, a packet might consist of ten decimal digits.
	Numbers are assigned to the parts of the store in which the various packets of information are stored, in some systematic manner.
	A typical instruction might say―
</p>
<p>
	“Add the number stored in position 6809 to that in 4302 and put the result back into the latter storage position.”
</p>
<p>
	Needless to say it would not occur in the machine expressed in English.
	It would more likely be coded in a form such as 6809430217.
	Here 17 says which of various possible opera&#173;tions is to be performed on the two numbers.
	In this case the operation is that described above, <abbr title="that is to say"><i lang="la" xml:lang="la">viz.</i></abbr>, “Add the number….”
	It will be noticed that the instruction takes up 10 digits and so forms one packet of information, very conveniently.
	The control will normally take the instructions to be obeyed in the order of the positions in which they are stored, but occasionally an in&#173;struction such as
</p>
<p>
	<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page-438" title="438"></span>
	“Now obey the instruction stored in position 5606, and con&#173;tinue from there”
</p>
<p class="no-indent">
	may be encountered, or again
</p>
<p>
	“If position 4505 contains 0 obey next the instruction stored in 6707, otherwise continue straight on.”
</p>
<p class="no-indent">
	Instructions of these latter types are very important because they make it possible for a sequence of operations to be repeated over and over again until some condition is fulfilled, but in doing so to obey, not fresh instructions on each repetition, but the same ones over and over again.
	To take a domestic analogy.
	Suppose Mother wants Tommy to call at the cobbler’s every morning on his way to school to see if her shoes are done, she can ask him afresh every morning.
	Alternatively she can stick up a notice once and for all in the hall which he will see when he leaves for school and which tells him to call for the shoes, and also to destroy the notice when he comes back if he has the shoes with him.
</p>
<p>
	The reader must accept it as a fact that digital computers can be constructed, and indeed have been constructed, according to the principles we have described, and that they can in fact mimic the actions of a human computer very closely.
</p>
<p>
	The book of rules which we have described our human computer as using is of course a convenient fiction.
	Actual human com&#173;puters really remember what they have got to do.
	If one wants to make a machine mimic the behaviour of the human computer in some complex operation one has to ask him how it is done, and then translate the answer into the form of an instruction table.
	Constructing instruction tables is usually described as ‘pro&#173;gramming’.
	To “programme a machine to carry out the opera&#173;tion <var>A</var>” means to put the appropriate instruction table into the machine so that it will do <var>A</var>.
</p>
<p>
	An interesting variant on the idea of a digital computer is a “digital computer with a random element”.
	These have instructions involving the throwing of a die or some equivalent electronic process; one such instruction might for instance be, “Throw the die and put the-resulting number into store 1000”.
	Sometimes such a machine is described as having free will (though I would not use this phrase myself).
	It is not normally possible to determine from observing a machine whether it has a random element, for a similar effect can be produced by such devices as making the choices depend on the digits of the decimal for π.
</p>
<p>
	Most actual digital computers have only a finite store.
	There is no theoretical difficulty in the idea of a computer with an un&#173;limited store.
	Of course only a finite part can have been used at any one time.
	Likewise only a finite amount can have been<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page-439" title="439"></span> constructed, but we can imagine more and more being added as required.
	Such computers have special theoretical interest and will be called infinitive capacity computers.
</p>
<p>
	The idea of a digital computer is an old one.
	Charles Babbage, Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge from 1828 to 1839, planned such a machine, called the Analytical Engine, but it was never completed.
	Although Babbage had all the essential ideas, his machine was not at that time such a very attractive prospect.
	The speed which would have been available would be definitely faster than a human computer but something like 100 times slower than the Manchester machine, itself one of the slower of the modern machines.
	The storage was to be purely mechanical, using wheels and cards.
</p>
<p>
	The fact that Babbage’s Analytical Engine was to be entirely mechanical will help us to rid ourselves of a superstition.
	Import&#173;ance is often attached to the fact that modern digital computers are electrical, and that the nervous system also is electrical.
	Since Babbage’s machine was not electrical, and since all digital com&#173;puters are in a sense equivalent, we see that this use of electricity cannot be of theoretical importance.
	Of course electricity usually comes in where fast signalling is concerned, so that it is not surprising that we find it in both these connections.
	In the nervous system chemical phenomena are at least as important as electrical.
	In certain computers the storage system is mainly acoustic.
	The feature of using electricity is thus seen to be only a very superficial similarity.
	If we wish to find such similarities we should took rather for mathematical analogies of function.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
